# Kubernetes Services
A **Kubernetes service** is a logical abstraction for a deployed group of pods in a cluster

#### Typical Scenario 
- All Pods on a Cluster is connected to a Virtual network 10.244.XX.XX.
- Can't be accessed via External Devices
- **Pods are ephemeral**
	Pods are Deleted Frequently (On Restarts, or During Self-Healing, or During a Update Rollout or Rollback). The IP assigned to a POD (in 10.244.XX.XX series), changes. So, we can't hardcode the IPs either.

### Services Types
ref: [Kubernetes Documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types)
- NodePort
- ClusterIP
- LoadBalancer
- ExternalName
---
## NodePort
- Make Pods accessible to External Devices, via A Port in all the Nodes of Cluster.
- This involves 3 ports:
	1. `TargetPort`: Port on Pods to be exposed.
	2. `Port`: Port on the service, to be linked to `TargetPort`.
	3. `NodePort`: Port on the Nodes, to be connected to the NodePort service. It must be in the range 30000-32767.

#### Create NodePort: Definition File

```yml
apiVerion: v1
kind: Service

metadata:
	name: <SERVICE NAME>

spec:
	type: NodePort
	ports: 
	  - targetPort: <TargetPort>
	    port: <Port>
	    nodePort: <NodePort>
	selector:
		<APPROPRIATE LABELS>
```
here,
- only `port` is mandatory
- if no target port is given -> target port = port
- if no nodePort -> nodePort = any port from range 30000-32767
- A NodePort is available on all nodes IPs
---

## ClusterIP
- Create an network abstraction for logically group pods and provides a single interface to intact with pods.
- Request is sent by other pods on `<SERVICE NAME>`. The Request is then Forwarded to any pods from the logically group, randomly.
#### Create NodePort: Definition File
```yml
apiVerion: v1
kind: Service

metadata:
	name: <SERVICE NAME>

spec:
	type: ClusterIP
	ports: 
	  - targetPort: <TargetPort>
	    port: <Port>
	selector:
		<APPROPRIATE LABELS>
```
here,
- only `port` is mandatory
- if no target port is given -> target port = port
